OWASP TOP 10

## 1) Injection
In Injection attack,attacker can submit malicious input which gets interpreted and executed by the processor, generating wrong or unexpected results. The attacker can further attack the website to crash it or get any confidential data.

Different Injection Types : CRLF injection, XPATH injection, LDAP injection, SQL injection, HTML injection, code injection, Template injection etc.

### SQL Injection
In this attack,attacker can take complete control of database by inserting malicious query. 

Web application usually accept the input from user through html form and front end passes the input to database for processing.If application fails to sanitize user input,an attacker can inject malicious query into the database to delete,copy or modify the database content.

SQL Injection attack can lead to Authentication bypass, Information disclosure, Data loss, Data theft, Loss of data integrity, Denial of service, Full system compromise.

#### Types of SQL Injection

##### Error-based SQLi -
This technique relies on error messages thrown by the database to obtain hints about the DB structure. Attacker sends a malicious query to the database which results in errors.

##### Union-based SQLi - 
This technique uses union command in SQL query to execute additional queries;like modify, insert or delete contents of the table.

##### Boolean-based SQLi - 
In this type of attack, a Boolean query causes the application to give a different response for a valid or invalid result in the database. 

##### Time-based SQLi - 
This type of attack involves the sending of a timed SQL query to the database. Based on the response time as well as the response itself, a hacker can assess if their payload is successfully sent. This attack takes time to carry out the attack process.

## Mitigation
The main reason for injections to happen is the lack of validation and sanitation of data consumed by the application. 
In general,make sure that development team is following security requirements when writing code.

1) Use of Prepared Statements (with Parameterized Queries)
2) Whitelist Input Validation
3) Escaping All User Supplied Input
4) Use LIMIT and other SQL controls to prevent mass disclosure in case of an attack.
5) Don’t use dynamic SQL.
6) Utilize the principle of least privilege when provisioning accounts used to connect to the SQL database. 
8) Use a Web Application Firewall (WAF) for web applications that access databases.
9) Use a web application security testing solution to routinely test web apps that interact with databases and Keep databases updated to the latest available patches

## 2) Broken Authentication
This attack is about getting access to application without proper credentials.

Application accept the input from user through html form and front end passes the input to database for processing.For this,session gets created for that particular user for furthur communication.

But if application is not developed by considering proper authentication parameters,then attacker can try different methods like credential stuffing,bruteforce,session hijacking to get access to that application.

So,Broken authentication is typically caused by poorly implemented authentication and session management functions. 

#### Common Risk Factors
- Predictable login credentials.
- User authentication credentials that are not protected when stored.
- Session IDs exposed in the URL (e.g., URL rewriting).
- Session IDs vulnerable to session fixation attacks.
- Session value that does not time out or get invalidated after logout.
- Session IDs that are not rotated after successful login.
- Passwords, session IDs, and other credentials sent over unencrypted connections.

## Mitigation
1. Do not deploy any default credentials.
2. Store passwords using a modern one-way hash function.
3. Implement weak password checks against a list of the top 10000 worst passwords.
4. Ensure registration, credential recovery, and API pathways are hardened against account enumeration attacks by using the same messages for all outcomes.
5. Implement multi-factor authentication to prevent credential stuffing, brute force, and stolen credential attacks.
6. Log authentication failures and alert administrators when attacks are detected.
7. Limit the attempts for authenticating.
8. Secure your password storage.

## 3) Sensitive Data Exposure
Sensitive data exposure occurs when an application exposes personal data,which is a result of inadequately protecting a database where information is stored.

This vulnerability allows an attacker to access sensitive data such as credit cards, authentication credentials etc to conduct credit card fraud, identity theft, or other crimes.Losing such data can cause severe business impact, the potential impact is always considered high for this type vulnaerability. 

What the data consists of varies and so does the impact.It all depends on what kind of data is at risk of being exposed.

Common Risk Factors are Data stored in plain text, lack of HTTPS on authenticated pages, hashed passwords with lack of salt, making the password easily cracked, tokens disclosed in public source code.


## Mitigation
1. Identify which data is sensitive according to privacy laws, regulatory requirements, or business needs.
2. Classify data processed, stored, or transmitted by an application and apply controls.
3. Don’t store sensitive data unnecessarily.
4. Use PCI DSS compliant tokenization or even truncation. Data that is not retained cannot be stolen.
5. Make sure to encrypt all sensitive data at rest.
6. Ensure up-to-date and strong standard algorithms, protocols, and keys are in place; use proper key management.
7. Encrypt all data in transit with secure protocols such as TLS with perfect forward secrecy (PFS) ciphers, cipher prioritization by the server, and secure parameters.
8. Enforce encryption using directives like HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS).
9. Disable caching for responses that contain sensitive data.

## 4) XML External Entities (XEE)
An XML External Entity is an attack against an application parsing XML input from an unreliable source. It’s usually caused by a misconfigured XML parser.

This Vulnerability allows an attacker to read sensitive data and system files on a local machine that could be escalated depending on the data stored on the machine. These attack vectors are all dependent on the permissions given to the parsing application.
 
XXE is not very common issue but vulnerability is very serious and can have devastating impact on the target infrastructure. 

## Mitigation
1. Whenever possible, use less complex data formats such as JSON, and avoiding serialization of sensitive data.
2. Patch or upgrade all XML processors and libraries in use by the application or on the underlying operating system. Use dependency checkers. Update SOAP to SOAP 1.2 or higher.
3. Disable XML external entity and DTD processing in all XML parsers in the application.
4. Implement positive ("whitelisting") server-side input validation, filtering, or sanitization to prevent hostile data within XML documents, headers, or nodes.
5. Verify that XML or XSL file upload functionality validates incoming XML using XSD validation or similar.
6. SAST tools can help detect XXE in source code.

## 5) Broken Access Control
Access control enforces policies like how applications control what content and features should be accessible to different users.

Broken access control happens when the application fails to properly validate authorization after the user has been authenticated and failures typically lead to unauthorized information disclosure, modification or destruction of all data, or performing a business function outside of the limits of the user.

The potential impact of Broken Access Control depends on what kind of information or features the attacker gain access to.

#### There are two categories of access control Vulnerabilities

##### 1) Horizontal Privilege Escalation:
Occurs when a user can perform an action or access data of another user with the same level of permissions.

One user is able to perform action of another user without authorization.
##### 2) Vertical Privilege Escalation: 
Occurs when a user can perform an action or access data that requires a level of access beyond their role.

One user is able to perform action of admin without authorization.

## Mitigation
1. Implement access control mechanisms once and reuse them throughout the application, including minimizing CORS usage.
2. Model access controls should enforce record ownership, rather than accepting that the user can create, read, update, or delete any record. 
3. Unique application business limit requirements should be enforced by domain models.
4. Disable web server directory listing and ensure file metadata (e.g. .git) and backup files are not present within web roots.
5. Log access control failures, alert admins when appropriate (e.g. repeated failures). 
6. Rate limit API and controller access to minimize the harm from automated attack tooling.
7. JWT tokens should be invalidated on the server after logout.
8. Developers and QA staff should include functional access control units and integration tests.

## 6) Security Misconfiguration
Security misconfigurations are security settings inappropriately configured or left insecure that put your systems and data at risk. Basically, any poorly documented configuration changes, default settings, or a technical issue across any component in your endpoints could lead to a misconfiguration.


## Mitigation
1. A repeatable hardening process that makes it fast and easy to deploy another environment that is properly locked down. Development, QA, and production environments should all be configured identically, with different credentials used in each environment. Automate this process in order to minimize the effort required to set up a new secure environment.
2. A minimal platform without any unnecessary features, components, documentation, and samples. Remove or do not install unused features and frameworks.
3. A task to review and update the configurations appropriate to all security notes, updates, and patches as part of the patch management process. In particular, review cloud storage permissions.
4. A segmented application architecture that provides effective and secure separation between components or tenants, with segmentation, containerization, or cloud security groups.
5. Sending security directives to clients, e.g. Security Headers.
6. An automated process to verify the effectiveness of the configurations and settings in all environments.

## 7) Cross-Site Scripting
An XSS allows an attacker to inject a malicious javascript into website. When a user visits the infected page, the script will execute in the victim’s browser. This allows attackers to steal private information like cookies, account information, or to perform custom operations while impersonating the victim’s identity.

The script can be designed to carry out a various malicious acts, leaving the user vulnerable to potential cookie, credential, data, or identity theft; account takeover.
 

### Types of XSS - 
##### 1) Stored XSS (Persistent or Type I) - 
This attack occurs when a malicious script is being saved on the web server permanently.

##### 2) Reflected XSS (Non-Persistent or Type II) - 
This attack occurs, when a malicious script is not being saved on the web server but reflected in the website’s results.

##### 3) DOM Based XSS (Type-0) - 
This XSS attack type target the server side, but with DOM-based attacks, the script is fully on the client side and manipulates the DOM (Document Object Model) instead of the HTML code. 

The malicious code never touches, nor is transmitted to or from the webserver.The attack payload modifies the DOM environment in the victim’s browser, causing the client-side code to be interpreted based on the hacker’s intent.

## Mitigation
1. Whitelist Values
2. Avoid and Restrict HTML in inputs
3. Sanitize Values
4. Encoding or Escape untrusted input.
5. Use HTTPOnly Flags on Cookies
6. Use a WAF to Protect against Cross-Site Scripting Attacks


## 8) Insecure Deserialization
- The process of serialization is converting objects to byte strings.
- The process of deserialization is converting byte strings to objects.

Web application frequently uses serialization and deserialization processes to provide more flexibility in term of platform and data communication.

Attacker abuses deserialization feature when the application is deserializing untrusted data which the attacker controls. 

Insecure deserialization attacks could allow an attacker to carry out denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, authentication bypasses, and remote code execution attacks.

## Mitigation
1. Implementing integrity checks such as digital signatures on any serialized objects to prevent hostile object creation or data tampering.
2. Logging deserialization exceptions and failures, such as where the incoming type is not the expected type, or the deserialization throws exceptions.
3. Restricting or monitoring incoming and outgoing network connectivity from containers or servers that deserialize.
4. Monitoring deserialization, alerting if a user deserializes constantly.
5. Encrypting serialization processes.
6. Not accepting serialized objects from unknown or untrusted sources.
7. Running the deserialization code with limited access permissions.
8. Using a firewall which can help detect insecure deserialization.

## 9) Using Components with Known Vulnerabilities
When vulnerabilities are known, vendors can fix them right way and release a patch or update.

To maximize security in your application, it is highly recommended that every development team have at least one person responsible for tracking, patching and for making sure the components are free of vulnerabilities.

## Mitigation
1. Remove all unnecessary dependencies.
2. Have an inventory of all your components on the client-side and server-side.
3. Monitor sources like Common Vulnerabilities and Disclosures (CVE) and National Vulnerability Database (NVD) for vulnerabilities in the components.
4. Obtain components only from official sources.
5. Get rid of components not actively maintained.
6. Use Web Application Firewall.

## 10) Insufficient Logging & Monitoring
This includes keeping your website monitored on a regular basis so you can take immediate action when something happens.

Not having an efficient logging and monitoring process in place can increase the damage of a website compromise.

## Mitigation
1. All login, access control, and server-side input validation errors should be logged with sufficient user context to identify suspicious or malicious accounts. Logs should be retained for a period of time that allows delayed forensic analysis.
2. Ensure that logs are created in a format that can be easily used by central log management tools.
3. High-value transactions should have an audit trail with integrity controls to prevent manipulation or deletion.
4. Effective monitoring and alerting should be established so that suspicious activities can be detected and responded to in a timely manner.
5. A separate and dedicated, security hardened server platform to capture and store events in the audit log.
6. The use of network time synchronization technology to synchronize system clocks. This also enables automated monitoring tools to analyze event patterns that occur in real time.
7. Strong access control to logs.
8. The creation of a formal incident response plan.
9. Ensuring 24/7 monitoring by implementing a warning system for monitoring personnel.

